WCAG2ICT Task Force request to Update non-web-ict.md (#1197)
w3c/wai-website: pages/standards-guidelines/wcag/non-web-ict.md

Reviewer: Should we change the WCAG2ICT publish date to 15 November since it was republished on that date/that date matches the current publication.

Reviewer 2: Yes, we should do that. Thanks @maryjom @ChrisLoiselle

Reviewer 2: +1 to updates in line 15, -1 to removing EOWG. The fact that the group is now closed should not preclude us from acknowledging their contribution.

Reviewer 3: Thanks for bringing this up.
A few things:

- Since this is a substantial rewrite, I'm comfortable putting y'all as editors and me as past editor. OK?
- We should not remove past editors, and usually should not remove past contributors. I'll move Judy to past.
- When EOWG developed a resource and it says "developed by EOWG", we should not remove EOWG. However, EOWG is listed in several places as "with input from EOWG". In most cases that was mostly me, and it's fine to delete those.

I'm working on a PR now with these updates.

I will work on sharing with Team and others editing pages the parameters for changing editors, contributors, and EOWG.

image: /content-images/wcag/general-social.jpg
footer: >
  <p><strong>Editors:</strong> <a href="https://www.w3.org/People/Shawn/">Shawn Lawton Henry</a>, Mary Jo Mueller, Chris Loiselle, and <a href="https://www.w3.org/staff/#dmontalvo">Daniel Montalvo</a>. Past contributor: Judy Brewer.</p>
  <p>Developed with the <a href="https://www.w3.org/groups/tf/wcag2ict/">WCAG2ICT Task Force</a>.</p>
---

{::nomarkdown}
{% include box.html type="start" h="2" title="Summary" class="full" %}
{:/}

> <cite>Guidance on Applying WCAG 2 to Non-Web Information and Communications Technologies [(WCAG2ICT)](https://www.w3.org/TR/wcag2ict/)</cite> is a W3C Group Note that describes how Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) principles, guidelines, and success criteria can be applied to documents, software, and other information and communications technologies (ICT).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
<cite>Guidance on Applying WCAG 2 to Non-Web Information and Communications Technologies [(WCAG2ICT)](https://www.w3.org/TR/wcag2ict/)</cite> is a [W3C Group Note](https://www.w3.org/standards/types/#x2-5-2-group-note) that describes how Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) principles, guidelines, and success criteria can be applied to documents, software, and other information and communications technologies (ICT).
```

> This page provides an overview of the WCAG2ICT accessibility guidance, its purpose, who it is for, what it does and does **not** do, and how to comment on WCAG2ICT.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This page provides an overview of the WCAG2ICT accessibility guidance, its purpose, who it is for, what it does and does ***not*** do, and how to comment on WCAG2ICT.
```

requested by @tamsinewing555

> This page provides an overview of the WCAG2ICT accessibility guidance, its purpose, who it is for, what it does and does ***not*** do, and how to comment on WCAG2ICT.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This page provides an overview of the WCAG2ICT accessibility guidance, its purpose, who it is for, what it does and does *not* do, and how to comment on WCAG2ICT.
```

@tamsinewing555 preference

  * [KS 2952-1](https://webstore.kebs.org/index.php?route=product/product&product_id=17111) and [KS 2952-2](https://webstore.kebs.org/index.php?route=product/product&product_id=17112) (Kenya standard based on EN 301 549)
  * CPR-6201, JEN 301 549 (Japan standard based on EN 301 549)
* [U.S. Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act](https://www.access-board.gov/about/law/ra.html#section-508-federal-electronic-and-information-technology) — requires ICT that is developed, procured, maintained, or used by U.S. federal agencies to be accessible to people with disabilities
* [Section 508 Standards](https://www.access-board.gov/ict/) — a U.S. regulation that defines what is necessary for ICT to be considered accessible

### Comments
To comment on the WCAG2ICT guidance, [open a new GitHub issue](https://github.com/w3c/wcag2ict/issues/new). Please create a separate GitHub issue for each topic, rather than commenting on multiple topics in a single issue. It is free to create a GitHub account.

If it’s not feasible for you to use GitHub, email your comments to: <public-wcag2ict-comments@w3.org>. Please put your comments in the body of the message, not as an attachment.

> If you have comments on the wording quoted from WCAG 2 or Understanding WCAG 2, follow the [Instructions for Commenting on WCAG 2 Documents](https://deploy-preview-1197--wai-website.netlify.app/standards-guidelines/wcag/commenting/).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
If you have comments on the wording quoted from WCAG 2 or Understanding WCAG 2, follow the [Instructions for Commenting on WCAG 2 Documents](/standards-guidelines/wcag/commenting/).
```

**Note:** WCAG 2 was developed for the web and not for non-web ICT. This means that fully addressing accessibility for non-web documents and software involves requirements beyond those included in WCAG 2 and WCAG2ICT. For this reason, authors, designers and developers are encouraged to seek other relevant advice about current best practices to ensure that non-web documents and software are as accessible as possible to people with disabilities.

### About WCAG 2

**WCAG 2.0** is a normative web standard — that is, a W3C Recommendation and an ISO International Standard ([ISO/IEC 40500:2012](https://www.w3.org/QA/2012/10/wcag_20_is_now_also_isoiec_405.html)) — that explains how to make web content (including static web pages and dynamic web applications) more accessible to people with disabilities. **WCAG 2.1** was published in 2018 and **WCAG 2.2** was published in 2023. 

For more information on WCAG 2, see:
- [WCAG 2 Overview](https://www.w3.org/WAI/standards-guidelines/wcag/)
- [WCAG 2 at a Glance](https://www.w3.org/WAI/standards-guidelines/wcag/glance/)
- [How to Meet WCAG 2 (Quick Reference)](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/quickref/)

## Intent and usage of WCAG2ICT

> WCAG2ICT is a W3C Group Note that is [informative](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG22/#dfn-informative) — it is not [normative](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG22/#dfn-normative) and does not set requirements. It provides guidance on the application of WCAG 2 principles, guidelines, and success criteria to non-web documents and software. WCAG2ICT was developed to provide an authoritative interpretation of how WCAG 2 can apply in different contexts.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
WCAG2ICT is a [W3C Group Note](https://www.w3.org/standards/types/#x2-5-2-group-note) that is [informative](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG22/#dfn-informative) — it is not [normative](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG22/#dfn-normative) and does not set requirements. It provides guidance on the application of WCAG 2 principles, guidelines, and success criteria to non-web documents and software. WCAG2ICT was developed to provide an authoritative interpretation of how WCAG 2 can apply in different contexts.
```

* ICT managers who are familiar with WCAG — to enable them to quickly get an overview of using WCAG as an accessibility benchmark for non-web ICT
* technology developers and designers — to provide them with the non-web language substitutions for language in WCAG success criteria, where existing accessibility standards do not contain an interpretation
* policy makers (including regulators when making regulations) — to inform them how WCAG2ICT is being used to influence standards requirements where WCAG is being applied to non-web ICT
* others, including auditors, educators, litigators, and vendors — to help them learn more about digital accessibility

## What is in WCAG2ICT {#whatis}

WCAG2ICT provides:

-   **overall context** for applying WCAG 2 to non-web documents and software
-   **guidance on applying WCAG principles, guidelines, and Levels A and AA success criteria** to non-web documents and software
-   **key terms** related to applying WCAG 2 to non-web documents and software
-   **comments on the definitions** in the WCAG 2 Glossary
-   **comments on conformance**
-   **background information** on some topics

### Technical document format

> WCAG2ICT follows the [W3C format for technical reports](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/Process/Process-19991111/tr.html#Reports), which has several sections at the beginning, including links to different versions, editors, abstract, and status.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
WCAG2ICT follows the W3C format for technical reports, which has several sections at the beginning, including links to different versions, editors, abstract, and status.
```

* [Nondiscrimination on the Basis of Disability; Accessibility of Web Information and Services of State and Local Government Entities](https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2024/04/24/2024-07758/nondiscrimination-on-the-basis-of-disability-accessibility-of-web-information-and-services-of-state) (Rule by the U.S. Department of Justice) 
* [Fact Sheet: New Rule on the Accessibility of Web Content and Mobile Apps Provided by State and Local Governments](https://www.ada.gov/resources/2024-03-08-web-rule/) (ADA.gov)
* [EN 301 549 (PDF)](https://www.etsi.org/deliver/etsi_en/301500_301599/301549/03.02.01_60/en_301549v030201p.pdf) and country-specific standards based on EN 301 549:
  * [CAN/ASC - EN 301 549 Accessibility requirements for ICT products and services (EN 301 549, IDT](https://accessible.canada.ca/en-301-549-accessibility-requirements-ict-products-and-services-1)) (Canada standards adoption of EN 301 549 verbatim)
  * [AS EN 301 549](https://www.standards.org.au/standards-catalogue/standard-details?designation=as-en-301-549-2020) (Australia standards adoption of EN 301 549 verbatim)

>   * [IS 17802 Part 1](https://broadbandindiaforum.in/wp-content/uploads/2022/08/IS-17802_1_2021.pdf) and [IS 17802 Part 2](https://broadbandindiaforum.in/wp-content/uploads/2022/08/IS-17802_2_2022.pdf) (India standard based on EN 301 549)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  * [IS 17802 Part 1 (PDF)](https://broadbandindiaforum.in/wp-content/uploads/2022/08/IS-17802_1_2021.pdf) and [IS 17802 Part 2 (PDF)](https://broadbandindiaforum.in/wp-content/uploads/2022/08/IS-17802_2_2022.pdf) (India standard based on EN 301 549)
```

*Background:* **WCAG 2.0** is a normative web standard — it is a W3C Recommendation and an ISO International Standard ([ISO/IEC 40500:2012](https://www.w3.org/QA/2012/10/wcag_20_is_now_also_isoiec_405.html)) — that explains how to make web content (including static web pages, dynamic web applications, etc.) more accessible to people with disabilities. WCAG 2.1 was published in 2018 and **WCAG 2.2** was published in 2023. The [WCAG Overview](/standards-guidelines/wcag/) introduces the WCAG documents and links to supporting resources such as [[WCAG 2.0 at a Glance]](/standards-guidelines/wcag/20/glance/) and [How to Meet WCAG 2 (Quick Reference)](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG20/quickref/).

### Goals
The objective of the WCAG2ICT Task Force is to develop documentation describing how WCAG 2.x and its principles, guidelines, and success criteria could apply to non-Web Information and Communications Technologies (ICT).

> ### Intent and Usage of the WCAG2ICT

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Intent and Usage of WCAG2ICT
```

Reviewer: Since we're note saying "WCAG2ICT Group Note" then the heading reads better without "the".

WCAG2ICT, like any other  [W3C Group Note](https://www.w3.org/policies/process/#Note), is informative — it is not normative and does not set requirements. It provides guidance on the application of WCAG 2 principles, guidelines, and success criteria to non-web documents and software. The WCAG2ICT Group Note was developed to provide an authoritative interpretation of how WCAG 2 can apply in different contexts.

The main focus of the WCAG2ICT Group Note is to provide verbiage replacements for web-based language in the WCAG success criteria and definitions as well as provide additional insights into where WCAG criteria may make assumptions of the presence and functionality of a user agent and assistive technology. This is because not all software has a user agent or platform software with accessibility APIs and services, nor do all technologies have or support assistive technology that acts on programmatic information. 

> While WCAG2ICT Group Note provides guidance on applying WCAG in non-web contexts, at this time it may not provide sufficient clarity for some success criteria on how they can be applied to electronic documents whose source is driven by non-web markup technologies when they are delivered via a website. Likewise, there may not be sufficient clarity for mobile applications.  

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
While the WCAG2ICT Group Note provides guidance on applying WCAG in non-web contexts, at this time it may not provide sufficient clarity for some success criteria on how they can be applied to electronic documents whose source is driven by non-web markup technologies when they are delivered via a website. Likewise, there may not be sufficient clarity for mobile applications.  
```

Minor editorial suggestion

> *Scope*: WCAG2ICT does not include techniques for how to meet WCAG success criteria in specific technologies. More information is in the [Excluded from Scope section](https://www.w3.org/TR/wcag2ict-22/#excluded-from-scope).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: Suggest removing this because it belongs in the list of "What WCAG2ICT does not do".

## Introduction {#intro}

<cite>Guidance on Applying WCAG 2 to Non-Web Information and Communications Technologies (WCAG2ICT)</cite> describes how the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) can be applied to non-web information and communications technologies (ICT), including documents and software.

The WCAG2ICT Group Note provides:
* [Informative](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG22/#dfn-informative) **guidance** that is not [normative](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG22/#dfn-normative) and that does not set requirements.
* **Guidance** on how the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) could apply to non-Web information and communications technologies (ICT) - this includes  non-Web documents and software, including mobile apps, native applications, platform software, and software on ICT with closed functionality.

> * **Technology-specific explanations or difficulties** for some success criteria. This is especially the case where WCAG makes assumptions on the presence of a browser that would not be true for non-web documents and software. Not all ICT have these concepts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Technology-specific explanations or difficulties** for some success criteria. This is especially the case where WCAG makes assumptions on the presence of a browser that would not be true for non-web documents and software. Not all ICT have a user agent or other underlying platform.
```

WCAG2ICT supports harmonized accessibility solutions across a range of technologies. WCAG2ICT has been a key resource for including WCAG in ICT accessibility regulation, legislation, and standards around the world.

### Background

[WCAG 2 was developed for the Web](https://www.w3.org/WAI/standards-guidelines/wcag/glance/). Addressing accessibility for non-Web documents and software involves requirements beyond those included in WCAG 2 and the WCAG2ICT Group Note. Authors and developers are encouraged to seek other relevant advice about current best practices to ensure that non-Web documents and software are accessible, as far as possible, to people with disabilities.

The 2013 WCAG2ICT Group Note helped regulatory bodies develop standards (i.e., 508, EN 301549) to adopt WCAG criteria for non-web documents and non-web software. The 2013 Group Note covered WCAG 2.0 (level A and AA) and the latest version of WCAG2ICT Group Note covers all WCAG 2 versions (level A and AA).

> *Background:* **WCAG 2.0** is a normative web standard — it is a W3C Recommendation and an ISO International Standard ([ISO/IEC 40500:2012](https://www.w3.org/QA/2012/10/wcag_20_is_now_also_isoiec_405.html)) — that explains how to make web content (including static web pages, dynamic web applications, etc.) more accessible to people with disabilities. WCAG 2.1 was published in 2018 and **WCAG 2.2** was published in 2023. The [WCAG Overview](/standards-guidelines/wcag/) introduces the WCAG documents and links to supporting resources such as [[WCAG 2.0 at a Glance]](/standards-guidelines/wcag/20/glance/) and [How to Meet WCAG 2 (Quick Reference)](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG20/quickref/).

Reviewer: I think some of these link targets are outdated: 
```suggestion
*Background:* **WCAG 2.0** is a normative web standard — it is a W3C Recommendation and an ISO International Standard ([ISO/IEC 40500:2012](https://www.w3.org/QA/2012/10/wcag_20_is_now_also_isoiec_405.html)) — that explains how to make web content (including static web pages, dynamic web applications, etc.) more accessible to people with disabilities. WCAG 2.1 was published in 2018 and **WCAG 2.2** was published in 2023. The [WCAG Overview](/standards-guidelines/wcag/) introduces the WCAG documents and links to supporting resources such as [[WCAG 2 at a Glance]](https://www.w3.org/WAI/standards-guidelines/wcag/glance/) and [How to Meet WCAG (Quick Reference)](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/quickref/).
```

While the WCAG2ICT Group Note provides guidance on applying WCAG in non-web contexts, at this time it may not provide sufficient clarity for some success criteria on how they can be applied to electronic documents whose source is driven by non-web markup technologies when they are delivered via a website. Likewise, there may not be sufficient clarity for mobile applications.  

### Versions
* [Guidance on Applying WCAG 2 to Non-Web Information and Communications Technologies (WCAG2ICT)](https://www.w3.org/TR/wcag2ict-22/) was published 15 November 2024 and covers WCAG 2.0, 2.1, and 2.2
* older version: [Guidance on Applying WCAG 2.0 to Non-Web Information and Communications Technologies (WCAG2ICT)](https://www.w3.org/TR/wcag2ict-20/) was published 5 September 2013 and covers WCAG 2.0
* The URI [https://www.w3.org/TR/wcag2ict/](https://www.w3.org/TR/wcag2ict/) points to the latest completed version

## Who WCAG2ICT is for {#for}

The WCAG2ICT Group Note is for standards developers, ICT managers, ICT developers, policy makers, and any others wanting to understand how WCAG 2 can be applied to non-web documents and software.

> * Accessibility [standards organizations](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Standards_organization) - to provide non-web language in the success criteria and definitions and to provide interpretation notes to help the organization make any potential adjustments or notes needed for specific technologies, if needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Accessibility standards organizations - to provide non-web language in the success criteria and definitions and to provide interpretation notes to help the organization make any potential adjustments or notes needed for specific technologies, if needed.
```

* ICT managers  - who are familiar with WCAG to quickly get an overview of using WCAG as an accessibility benchmark for non-web ICT.
* Technology developers - to provide the language substitutions for non-web language in WCAG success criteria where existing accessibility standards don’t contain an interpretation.

> * Policy makers (which includes legislators, regulators) - to inform policy makers how the WCAG2ICT note is being used to influence standards requirements where WCAG is being applied to non-web ICT.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Policy makers (including regulators when making regulations) - to inform policy makers how the WCAG2ICT note is being used to influence standards requirements where WCAG is being applied to non-web ICT.
```

Reviewer: Suggesting this instead of @daniel-montalvo suggested edits per the TF meeting on 17 April.

## Introduction {#intro}

> <cite>Guidance on Applying WCAG 2 to Non-Web Information and Communications Technologies (WCAG2ICT)</cite> describes how the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) can be applied to non-web information and communications technologies (ICT), including documents and software. WCAG2ICT is the acronym used for the W3C Guidance on Applying WCAG 2 to Non-web Information and Communication Technology Group Note.

Reviewer 2: Why not get rid of the second sentence as a whole? I don't think it adds much to the very first phrase in the previous sentence, where we are already expanding the acronym.

```suggestion
<cite>Guidance on Applying WCAG 2 to Non-Web Information and Communications Technologies (WCAG2ICT)</cite> describes how the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) can be applied to non-web information and communications technologies (ICT), including documents and software.
```

Reviewer: I'm fine with that change.

The WCAG2ICT Group Note provides:

> * [Informative](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG22/#dfn-informative) **guidance** that is not [normative](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG22/#dfn-normative) and that does not set requirements.

Reviewer 2: Not sure if linking to WCAG's definition of normative and informative is a good idea. We should think about how much we want to link to other places. This is a potential distraction for readers. Aren't normative and informative self-explanatory in this context?

```suggestion
* **Informative guidance** that is not normative and that does not set requirements.
```

Reviewer: I think this was something that the link was in the WCAG2ICT Note and when I copied in the text, and the link remained. However, there are those of us that work in the standards world and we know what normative vs. informative is. Not sure policy makers and others who are new to reading standards know the distinction. I don't think having a link is harmful here, and would prefer it be kept..

Author: Task Force discussed, we want to keep these links. Closed without action.

Reviewer 2: @ChrisLoiselle 

Thanks. I understand TF rationale. I'd like to leave this open in case this serves as guidance for other WAI Staff that will review this.

> * **Comments on applicability** of the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) when applied to non-web information and communications technologies (ICT) - this includes  non-web documents and software, including mobile apps, native applications, platform software, and [software on ICT with closed functionality[(https://www.w3.org/TR/wcag2ict/#comments-on-closed-functionality).

Reviewer 2: "applicability of the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) when applied to" sounds weird to me. Why not just "guidance on how WCAG could apply to"?

```suggestion
* **Guidance** on how the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) could apply to non-Web information and communications technologies (ICT) - this includes  non-Web documents and software, including mobile apps, native applications, platform software, and software on ICT with closed functionality.
```

Reviewer: I know it sounds a little weird, but I think with our new scope of work, we'll have more applicability notes than simple guidance on applying.  Would prefer it that part be left as-is.

Regarding the capitalization of "web". I thought this was no longer being done except when referring to the Web itself. WCAG 2.2 updates last December removed that capitalization anytime "web" was used as an adjective, such as "web content". Does the WAI website have different capitalization rules?

I'm also OK with removing the link to the closed functionality section.

> * **Technology-specific explanations or difficulties** for some success criteria. This is especially the case where WCAG makes assumptions on the presence of a browser that would not be true for non-web documents and software. Not all ICT have these concepts.

Reviewer 2: Explanations or difficulties? Both? One of those? Something else? I'd go with challenges.
"... true for non-web documents and software. Not all ICT have these concepts" seems to me like a redundant sentence. The first sentence already explains this concept.

```suggestion
* **Technology-specific challenges** for some success criteria. This is especially the case where WCAG makes assumptions on the presence of a browser that would not be true for non-Web documents and software.
```

Reviewer: Sometimes we have explanations. Sometimes we have both. Maybe that sentence should instead read: 
"Technology-specific explanations or difficulties, as applicable, for the success criteria."

Again...same comment as before for using "non-Web" vs. "non-web".

Author: 1) We talk to explanations or difficulties , thus don't want to incorporate the word change of challenges.
2) non-web is used as adjective, we don't want to accept these changes. Web is only capitalized when not an adjective.
3) Action item is to change Not all ICT have these concepts to Not all ICT have user agents for underlying platform (see Mary Jo's edits below)

> The WCAG2ICT Group Note is intended to help clarify how to use WCAG 2 to make non-web documents and non-web software more accessible to people with disabilities.  Addressing accessibility involves addressing the needs of people with auditory, cognitive, neurological, physical, speech, and visual disabilities, and the needs of people with accessibility requirements due to the effects of aging.  Although this document covers a wide range of issues, it is not able to address all the needs of all people with disabilities.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The WCAG2ICT Group Note is intended to help clarify how to use WCAG 2 to make non-Web documents and software more accessible to people with disabilities. Addressing accessibility involves addressing the needs of people with auditory, cognitive, neurological, physical, speech, and visual disabilities, and the needs of people with accessibility requirements due to the effects of aging. Although this document covers a wide range of issues, it is not able to address all the needs of all people with disabilities.
```

Reviewer: Same comment regarding "non-Web" vs. "non-web". It's confusing on how to know which form should be used.

WCAG2ICT supports harmonized accessibility solutions across a range of technologies. WCAG2ICT has been a key resource for including WCAG in ICT accessibility regulation, legislation, and standards around the world.

> ### Background and Development History for WCAG2ICT

Reviewer 2: "Background and Development History for WCAG2ICT" is a very long title. It seems to me this section is more about "Background"

```suggestion
### Background
```

Reviewer: I'm ok with "Background".

> [WCAG 2 was developed for the Web]( https://www.w3.org/WAI/standards-guidelines/wcag/glance/).  Addressing accessibility for non-web documents and non-web software involves requirements beyond those included in WCAG 2 and the WCAG2ICT Group Note.  Authors and developers are encouraged to seek other relevant advice about current best practices to ensure that non-web documents and non-web software are accessible, as far as possible, to people with disabilities.

Reviewer 2: Remove extra space after the opening parenthesis of the WCAG at a glance link. Shorten out non-web software. Capitalized Web 

```suggestion
[WCAG 2 was developed for the Web](https://www.w3.org/WAI/standards-guidelines/wcag/glance/). Addressing accessibility for non-Web documents and software involves requirements beyond those included in WCAG 2 and the WCAG2ICT Group Note. Authors and developers are encouraged to seek other relevant advice about current best practices to ensure that non-Web documents and software are accessible, as far as possible, to people with disabilities.
```

> The 2013 WCAG2ICT Group Note helped regulatory bodies develop standards (i.e., 508, EN 301549) adopt WCAG criteria for non-web documents and non-web software. The 2013 Group Note covered WCAG 2.0 (level A and AA) and the latest version of WCAG2ICT Group Note covers all WCAG 2 versions (level A and AA).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The 2013 WCAG2ICT Group Note helped regulatory bodies develop standards (i.e., 508, EN 301549) to adopt WCAG criteria for non-web documents and non-web software. The 2013 Group Note covered WCAG 2.0 (level A and AA) and the latest version of WCAG2ICT Group Note covers all WCAG 2 versions (level A and AA).
```

*Background:* **WCAG 2.0** is a normative web standard — it is a W3C Recommendation and an ISO International Standard ([ISO/IEC 40500:2012](https://www.w3.org/QA/2012/10/wcag_20_is_now_also_isoiec_405.html)) — that explains how to make web content (including static web pages, dynamic web applications, etc.) more accessible to people with disabilities. WCAG 2.1 was published in 2018 and **WCAG 2.2** was published in 2023. The [WCAG Overview](/standards-guidelines/wcag/) introduces the WCAG documents and links to supporting resources such as [[WCAG 2.0 at a Glance]](/standards-guidelines/wcag/20/glance/) and [How to Meet WCAG 2 (Quick Reference)](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG20/quickref/).

### Goals
The objective of the WCAG2ICT Task Force is to develop documentation describing how WCAG 2.x and its principles, guidelines, and success criteria could apply to non-Web Information and Communications Technologies (ICT).

### Intent and Usage of WCAG2ICT

> WCAG2ICT, like any other  [W3C Group Note](https://www.w3.org/policies/process/#Note), is informative — it is not normative and does not set requirements. It provides guidance on the application of WCAG 2 principles, guidelines, and success criteria to non-web documents and software. The WCAG2ICT Group Note was developed to provide an authoritative interpretation of how WCAG 2 can apply in different contexts.

Reviewer 2: I'd remove the link to the W3C Process. Too involved for an overview page/explainer.

```suggestion
WCAG2ICT, like any other W3C Group Note, is informative — it is not normative and does not set requirements. It provides guidance on the application of WCAG 2 principles, guidelines, and success criteria to non-web documents and software. The WCAG2ICT Group Note was developed to provide an authoritative interpretation of how WCAG 2 can apply in different contexts.
```

Reviewer: I'm ok with removing the link.

The main focus of the WCAG2ICT Group Note is to provide verbiage replacements for web-based language in the WCAG success criteria and definitions as well as provide additional insights into where WCAG criteria may make assumptions of the presence and functionality of a user agent and assistive technology. This is because not all software has a user agent or platform software with accessibility APIs and services, nor do all technologies have or support assistive technology that acts on programmatic information. 

> While the WCAG2ICT Group Note provides guidance on applying WCAG in non-web contexts, at this time it may not provide sufficient clarity for some success criteria on how they can be applied to electronic documents whose source is driven by non-web markup technologies when they are delivered via a website. Likewise, there may not be sufficient clarity for mobile applications.  

Reviewer 2: Put this on a more positive way

```suggestion
While the WCAG2ICT Group Note provides guidance on applying WCAG in non-web contexts, application of some success criteria to electronic documents whose source is driven by non-web markup technologies when they are delivered via a website may benefit from more specific guidance. Likewise, guidance for mobile applications may also benefit from a greater level of detail.  
```

Author: Accepted as suggestion per Task Force review.

### Versions
* [Guidance on Applying WCAG 2 to Non-Web Information and Communications Technologies (WCAG2ICT)](https://www.w3.org/TR/wcag2ict-22/) was published 15 November 2024 and covers WCAG 2.0, 2.1, and 2.2
* older version: [Guidance on Applying WCAG 2.0 to Non-Web Information and Communications Technologies (WCAG2ICT)](https://www.w3.org/TR/wcag2ict-20/) was published 5 September 2013 and covers WCAG 2.0
* The URI [https://www.w3.org/TR/wcag2ict/](https://www.w3.org/TR/wcag2ict/) points to the latest completed version

## Who WCAG2ICT is for {#for}

> The WCAG2ICT Group Note is for standards developers, ICT managers, ICT developers, policy makers, and any others wanting to understand how WCAG 2 can be applied to non-web documents and software.

Reviewer 2: W3C has traditionally avoided "policy makers" as an audience. Could we do with "regulators" as a broader term? Applies to subsequent appearances of the word.

```suggestion
The WCAG2ICT Group Note is for standards developers, ICT managers, ICT developers, regulators, and any others wanting to understand how WCAG 2 can be applied to non-web documents and software.
```

Author: 1) Task Force Reviewed. We do not want to accept change. Policy makers is more accurate.  Policy makers include people inside a company or organization.

Reviewer 2: @ChrisLoiselle 

Thanks. I understand TF rationale. I'd like to leave this open in case this serves as guidance for other WAI Staff that will review this.

> * Accessibility [standards organizations](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Standards_organization) - to provide non-web language in the success criteria and definitions and to provide interpretation notes to help the organization make any potential adjustments or notes needed for specific technologies, if needed.

Author: 1) Accept - Remove link reference on standards org.
2) Not accept - We will not change non-web to non-Web per priors on the same subject decision.

> * Accessibility [standards organizations](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Standards_organization) - to provide non-web language in the success criteria and definitions and to provide interpretation notes to help the organization make any potential adjustments or notes needed for specific technologies, if needed.

Author: See Mary Jo's edit below.

* ICT managers  - who are familiar with WCAG to quickly get an overview of using WCAG as an accessibility benchmark for non-web ICT.
* Technology developers - to provide the language substitutions for non-web language in WCAG success criteria where existing accessibility standards don’t contain an interpretation.

> * Policy makers (which includes legislators, regulators) - to inform policy makers how the WCAG2ICT note is being used to influence standards requirements where WCAG is being applied to non-web ICT.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Legislators and/or regulators) - to inform them how the WCAG2ICT note is being used to influence standards requirements where WCAG is being applied to non-web ICT.
```

Author: 1) Partial accept - Task force suggested Policy makers (including regulators when making regulations). See Mary Jo's suggestion.

* Others include auditors, educators, litigators, vendors, and any individuals looking to learn more about digital accessibility.

> 

Reviewer 2: Remove extra blank line

```suggestion
```

* Policy makers (which includes legislators, regulators) - to inform policy makers how the WCAG2ICT note is being used to influence standards requirements where WCAG is being applied to non-web ICT.
* Others include auditors, educators, litigators, vendors, and any individuals looking to learn more about digital accessibility.

## What WCAG2ICT Does Not Do

The WCAG2ICT Group Note:
* Does not make or help developers make a determination on which WCAG 2 provisions (principles, guidelines, or success criteria) should not be applied to non-web documents and software or to any particular technology or product.
* Does not propose changes to WCAG 2 or its supporting documents.
* Does not address any gaps between WCAG criteria and the accessibility requirements needed to address non-user interface aspects of platforms, user-interface components as individual items, and closed product software (where there is no assistive technology to communicate programmatic information).
* Does not apply WCAG to hardware aspects of products, because WCAG  does not apply to hardware.

> Does not provide techniques for implementing WCAG in any type of technology, web or non-web.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Does not provide techniques for implementing WCAG in any type of technology, web or non-web.
```

Reviewer: Was missing the list markup which made this item disappear from the list.

* Is not a standard and does not describe how non-web ICT should conform to WCAG. 
* Does not incorporate or interpret any of the WCAG supplemental guidance. 

> See the [Guidance in this Document[(https://w3c.github.io/wcag2ict/#guidance-in-this-document) section of the WCAG2ICT Group Note for more details.

Reviewer: Fix the right bracket so the text appears correctly as a link.

## Who develops WCAG2ICT {#wg}

> The WCAG2ICT Group Note is developed by a [Task Force (TF)](https://www.w3.org/WAI/about/groups/task-forces/wcag2ict/) of the [Accessibility Guidelines Working Group (AG WG)](https://www.w3.org/WAI/about/groups/agwg/). The [work statement](https://www.w3.org/WAI/about/groups/task-forces/wcag2ict/work-statement/) defines the objectives, scope, and approach for the WCAG2ICT Group Note. The participants of the WCAG2ICT TF are volunteers drawn from [W3C member organizations](https://www.w3.org/membership/list/) and [invited experts](https://www.w3.org/invited-experts/) and are supported by [Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI)](https://www.w3.org/WAI/about/#wai-staff).

Author: Accept as is.

> ### Related Documents

Reviewer 2: Traditionally, we have avoided having all these pointers to external resources on the overview pages. I think these belong more on the Note itself. I presume this is one thing that other WAI Staff may have comments on. Would we be OK moving these to the document itself (some of them are already there) and pointing to that section if we want to explicitly call them out in here.

## Who develops WCAG2ICT {#wg}

> The WCAG2ICT Group Note is developed by a [Task Force (TF)](https://www.w3.org/WAI/about/groups/task-forces/wcag2ict/) of the [Accessibility Guidelines Working Group (AG WG)](https://www.w3.org/WAI/about/groups/agwg/). The [work statement](https://www.w3.org/WAI/about/groups/task-forces/wcag2ict/work-statement/) defines the objectives, scope, approach, and so on for the WCAG2ICT Group Note. The participants of the WCAG2ICT TF are volunteers drawn from [W3C member organizations](https://www.w3.org/membership/list/) and [invited experts](https://www.w3.org/invited-experts/) and are supported by [Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI)](https://www.w3.org/WAI/about/#wai-staff).

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The WCAG2ICT Group Note is developed by a [Task Force (TF)](https://www.w3.org/WAI/about/groups/task-forces/wcag2ict/) of the [Accessibility Guidelines Working Group (AG WG)](https://www.w3.org/WAI/about/groups/agwg/). The [work statement](https://www.w3.org/WAI/about/groups/task-forces/wcag2ict/work-statement/) defines the objectives, scope, and approach for the WCAG2ICT Group Note. The participants of the WCAG2ICT TF are volunteers drawn from [W3C member organizations](https://www.w3.org/membership/list/) and [invited experts](https://www.w3.org/invited-experts/) and are supported by [Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI)](https://www.w3.org/WAI/about/#wai-staff).
```

Editorial suggestion - 'and so on' sounds rather informal, and doesn't add any useful information.

### Related Documents

We realize that there are many more standards that cover non-web software aspects of ICT. The following is not an extensive or complete list of references that may use WCAG2ICT:
* W3C WAI [Web Accessibility Laws and Policies](https://www.w3.org/WAI/policies/) page

> * [Fact Sheet: New Rule on the Accessibility of Web Content and Mobile Apps Provided by State and Local Governments | ADA.gov](https://www.ada.gov/resources/2024-03-08-web-rule/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Fact Sheet: New Rule on the Accessibility of Web Content and Mobile Apps Provided by State and Local Governments](https://www.ada.gov/resources/2024-03-08-web-rule/) (ADA.gov)
```

* [Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG)](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG22/)
* [WCAG2ICT Task Force](https://www.w3.org/WAI/about/groups/task-forces/wcag2ict/)) 
* [WCAG2ICT Work Statement](https://www.w3.org/WAI/about/groups/task-forces/wcag2ict/work-statement/)
* [EN 301 549](https://www.etsi.org/deliver/etsi_en/301500_301599/301549/03.02.01_60/en_301549v030201p.pdf) and country-specific standards based on the EN 301 549
  * [CAN/ASC - EN 301 549 Accessibility requirements for ICT products and services (EN 301 549, IDT](https://accessible.canada.ca/en-301-549-accessibility-requirements-ict-products-and-services-1)) (Canada standards adoption of the EN 301 549 verbatim)
  * [AS EN 301 549](https://www.standards.org.au/standards-catalogue/standard-details?designation=as-en-301-549-2020) (Australia standards adoption of the EN 301 549 verbatim)
  * [IS 17802 Part 1](https://broadbandindiaforum.in/wp-content/uploads/2022/08/IS-17802_1_2021.pdf) and [IS 17802 Part 2](https://broadbandindiaforum.in/wp-content/uploads/2022/08/IS-17802_2_2022.pdf) (India standard based on the EN 301 549)

>   * [KS 2952-1](KS 2952-1) and [KS 2952-2](https://webstore.kebs.org/index.php?route=product/product&product_id=17112) (Kenya standard based on the EN 301 549)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  * [KS 2952-1](https://webstore.kebs.org/index.php?route=product/product&product_id=17111) and [KS 2952-2](https://webstore.kebs.org/index.php?route=product/product&product_id=17112) (Kenya standard based on the EN 301 549)
```

Added missing link
